[Music]
so the skull was about 25 centimeters
thick making it the thickest ever known
and this weird Anatomy was because their
behavior was even weirder during the
mating season
it's believed macho males would go
head-to-head in a battle of the
boneheads
smashing into each other with an
almighty crash the bizarre phony plait
on their head acted like a giant crash
helmet spreading the impact to take the
strain from their brain but what is this
kind of bonkers head-butting power
actually look like
to find out I'm back at my Jurassic
junkyard where I'm gonna unleash the
beasts and bring these head-banging
Horrors back to life
bring it on meet the devastating
intimidating macerating
Pachycephalosaurus swing
easily the biggest experiment we've ever
had on deadly and frankly the most
frightening but how will this
super-sized swing show us what
Pachycephalosaurus could do so we've got
two steel cylinders each of which weigh
a quarter of a ton and these are gonna
simulate two male pachycephalosaurus
going head to head our deadly Dino
engineers have set the cylinders to
collide with an impact force of one and
a half tons exactly what the dinosaurs
are believed to have head-butted with
let's lock and load this playground of
peril but as always there is eight
deadly twists before we put serious
stuff in the firing line we're gonna
test out things are working with a can
of paint now I suggest we all stand back
a long way back once the safety latches
are locked
it's down to me to pull the release
time to swing for science so for the
first time in 65 million years two
deadly dueling dinosaurs go head-to-head
literally everyone set three
[Music]
[Laughter]
that is the biggest bright green
explosion I have ever seen
Wow our tin of paint is history all I
could think of is that that is
pachycephalosaurus brains that have just
exploded everywhere but the paint was
just a trial run times are up the ante
let's see what else we can dig up from
our Jurassic junkyard to test out the
headbutt from hell first to face off
against the king of swings is a
motorbike helmet these are built to
withstand enormous amounts of force to
the noggin can this modern engineering
marvel endure the impact
you